---
layout: posts
author: Joe
post.title: Matthew 11
excerpt_separator: "<!--excerpt-->"
pdf: \assets\pdf\Matthew-11_JesusInvitation.pdf
---
This week, we need to work through the first couple of items in a timely
fashion to make sure we can contemplate vs. 25-30 and their impact on
us.

<!--excerpt-->

Several of the discussion items from this week align perfectly with this
weeks sermon and the church discussion guide! Please contemplate the
sermon on Jacob and you prepare this week. You may want to look at the
church study guide here:
[Church Notes]

- What is one word or phrase that you hope describes 2023?

- Do you currently find yourself wrestling with anything in your life?

1.  Matthew 11:1-6 Questions from John

  Note that Matthew informs us that John was placed in prison in 4:12.

  - See John 14:34. Why do you think John was questioning Jesus, whom
    his mother had professes to be the Christ (Lk 1:42)?

  - See Isaiah 35:5-6. Why did Jesus use these quotations to reassure
    John?

  - How do we see Jesus gentle spirit in these answers?

2.  Matthew 11:7-19 Jesus endorsement of John

  - What do you think of Jesus statement that John was the greatest man
    born of woman?

  - Why does Jesus say \"if you are willing to accept it, he is Elijah
    who is to come\" (Mal 4:5)? Did the people accept John?

  - In what way did the people resemble children playing?

  - How are we tempted to be like these people that Jesus compares to
    children?

3.  Matthew 11:20-24 Failure to repent

  Tyre and Sidon were Phoenician cities 35 and 60 miles north of the Sea
  of Galilee.

  - Why do you think Tyre and Sidon would be more receptive to Jesus
    message?

  - How are we like the citizens of Capernaum, Chorazin, and Bethsaida?
    What do we need to do personally to avoid their fate?

4.  Matthew 11:25-30 Jesus\' gentle yoke and rest

  Having just explained the woeful state of some Jewish cities, Jesus
  now offers a beautiful alternative!

  - What are 2-3 ways in which you feel heavily laden?


  - What will you do to take on Jesus yoke and burden? That is, to
    surrender to him.

 


[Church Notes]: https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/faithnetworkuserfilestore/FAITHNETWORK_USERFILESTORE/FAITHNETWORK_USERFILESTORE/filecabinet/ministries/390f79c7-2313-405e-aac3-dd11f7453c71/Fillable%20Seven%20Choices%20SGSG.pdf