---
layout: posts
author: Joe
post.title: Matthew 16:1-20
pdf: /assets/pdf/Matthew_16_1-20.pdf
---
In chapter 16 we see another conflict between Jesus
and the Pharisees, Peter's great confession, and 
Jesus frankly explaining his coming conflict.

This section tracks Mark 8:11 and Luke 12.  From
these passages we see that Jesus returns to Jerusalem 
where he experiences the conflict with the Pharisees.

## From Acts Series

Here we see the beginning of the church, which Jesus foretold
in his teaching in Matthew 16!

* Describe a time when you were amazed and perplexed?  Does this
  give you any insight on how the people felt at the coming of
  the Holy Spirit?

## Matthew 16:1-4

Notice how similar this interaction is with Matthew 12:38

* What did we conclude was the essential message about this
  exchange in Matthew 12?  Do you see anything different here?

* Why do you think Matthew included this exchange that was so
  similar to the previous one?

## Matthew 16:5-12
  
* Jesus cautions the disciples to be careful about the teaching 
  of the Pharisees and Sadducees.  What are some cultural
  teachings that we need to be careful to avoid?

## Matthew 16:13-20

They have somehow arrived at Ceasarea Philippi.  This would
be about half-way back between the Decapolis region and 
Tyre and Sidon (about 30 miles North of the Sea of Galilee).

Ceasarea Philippi was a site of worship of false god's that
were associated with a cave that appeared to lead into the 
depths of the earth.

When Jesus says 'this Rock', he could reasonably be referring
to either Peter, himself, or Peter's testimony about Jesus.
1 Cor 3:11 seems to imply *himself*.

* What are your thoughts on how and why they were in Ceasarea 
  Philippi

* How deeply insightful was Peter's proclamation?

* How do you feel to see Jesus' statement that the 'gates of 
  hell' will not overcome his church?

* What do you think of Jesus promise to Peter that whateverhe would
  bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever
  yhe would loose on earth would be loosed in heaven?

* Why did Jesus caution the disciples not to tell anyone that 
  he was the Christ?  How does this fit with his interaction
  with the Pharisees and Sadducees?
