---
layout.posts
titlex: Matthew-12_46-13_23
pdf: /assets/pdf/Matthew-12_46-13_23.pdf
excerpt_separator: "<!--excerpt-->"
---
Sermon: Choose to be Thankful in Everything

 

-   When did someone thank you for something? How did their thankfulness
    impact your relationship with them?

 

-   How does being thankful in everything draw you closer to Jesus and
    help you align with God\'s will?

 <!--excerpt-->

 

Matt 12:46-50 Jesus' Earthly Family

 

We see in John 7:5 that Jesus\' (half) brothers did not believe in him
till after the resurrection. So we know in this passage that his family
was dubitable about his ministry.

 

-   What do you suppose Jesus family wanted to see him for?

>  

-   We know from John that Jesus\' half-brothers did not believe in him
    till after the resurrection. What do you think Mary was thinking in
    light of what she *knew* about Jesus?

>  

-   How do you feel knowing that Jesus regards *you* as closer than
    mother and brothers? What does this tell us about the kingdom of
    heaven?

 

Matt 13:1-17 Teaching in Parables

Here we will discuss Jesus' explanation about his teaching in parables,
we will discuss the parable of the sower with Jesus explanation in the
next section.

 

-   Why did the disciples come to Jesus at this point and ask why he was
    teaching in parables?

>  

-   See Isaiah 6:8-13, this is when Isaiah sees the throne room of God
    and is commissioned for his life\'s work as a prophet. It appears
    that God didn\'t want to heed the warning only to avoid the
    consequences, but he wanted an earnest spirit of renewal. How does
    this difficult aspect of Isaiah\'s ministry help us understand why
    Jesus taught in parables?

>  

-   When we discussed Matt 12:38, we saw that Jesus didn\'t argue with
    the Pharisees when they ignored his great signs. How does this help
    us understand why Jesus didn\'t offer more explanation to the
    Pharisees?

 

-   How do you think the disciples felt when Jesus explained to them
    that many would never be able to see or hear? What does that mean
    for us?

>  

-   Verses 16 and 17 help us understand the blessing given to us. How
    can we celebrate this blessing?

 

Matt 13:18-23 and 3-9 The Sower

 

-   Describe an example of a situation where you observed seed on the:

 

-   On the path - taken away by birds

-   On rocky ground - has no root

-   Among thorns - choked out by cares of the world

-   Good soil \-- bears fruit 100-fold, 60-fold, or 30-fold

>  

-   As redeemed Christians we are free from the three failures of the
    seed! but which do you find you need to most guard against in your
    life?

 
