
---
layout.posts
titlex: Matthew-15_21-35
pdf: /assets/pdf/Matthew-15_21-35.pdf
excerpt_separator: "<!--excerpt-->"
---
**Church Acts Guide**

-   **What is mistake you have made that you can laugh at today?**

**Matthew**

 

The passages this week each describe Jesus\' ministry to gentiles,
starting in Tyre and Sidon, and then as he travelled back through a
circuitous route through gentile territory to Magdala (south of
Capernaum on the Sea of Galilee).

<!--excerpt-->

>  

Matthew 15:21-28 Healing a Canaanite woman\'s daughter

> Tyre was 35 miles North of Galilee, Sidon about 60 miles North (a
> serious walk!).
>
>  

-   Why did Jesus and the disciples go so far North?

>  

-   Why did Jesus hesitate to heal the woman\'s daughter?

>  

-   Why did Jesus ultimately heal the woman\'s daughter?

>  

-   What do we learn about Jesus and how we should approach him?

>  
>
>  

Matthew 15:29-35

Mark 7:31 describes Jesus' journey back to the sea of Galilee. From this
we see that the four thousand fed in this passage were probably
gentiles.

>  
>
>  

-   What do you think of the gentile peoples' reaction to Jesus and his
    teaching? Notice that \"they glorified the God of Israel\".

>  

-   How does Jesus' ministry to these gentiles fit with what he told the
    Phoenician woman?

>  

-   In light of Matthew 14:13, what do you think the disciples were
    expecting when they questioned Jesus about how to feed the gentile
    group?

>  

What do you think the disciples learned from this journey? What do these
passages regarding Jesus' ministry to the gentiles teach us?

 

 

**From the events we discussed this week, what is one thing that you
will try to put into practice this week?**
