---
layout.posts
titlex: Matthew-13_24-68
pdf: /assets/pdf/Matthew-13_24-68.pdf
excerpt_separator: "<!--excerpt-->"
---
**Regarding doubt, and trusting Jesus**

>  

-   Can you describe a time that you were surprised by something that
    God did for you?

>  

-   How does doubt negatively impact people?

 <!--excerpt-->

 

**Matt 13:24-62 Seven Parables about the Kingdom of Heaven**

As we discuss these parables, remember the parable of the Sower that
Jesus had just shared (and we discussed last week).

 

-   What does each parable tell us about the kingdom of heaven? What is
    the overall message?

> The Sower
>
>  
>
> The Weeds
>
>  
>
> Mustard Seed
>
>  
>
> The Yeast
>
>  
>
> The Hidden Treasure
>
>  
>
> This Hidden Pearl
>
>  
>
> This Fishing Net
>
>  

-   The term \"Kingdom of Heaven\" is difficult and seems to be used in
    a couple of ways. See Psalm 145:11-13, Luke 17:20,21, and Matt 3:2
    regarding its fulfillment with Jesus coming. But also see Matt 8:11,
    Mark 10:23-25 for \"end of age\" usage. What is the intent in these
    passages?

 

-   Notice Jesus exchange with the disciples in 51,52. Did the disciples
    really understand? What were they, and we, supposed to understand?

>  

-   In vs 52, what are the old and new treasures? What are we supposed
    to do as possessors of these treasurers?

>  

-   What do these parables teach us about our current world, the
    presence of evil, and how God works around us?

 

 

**Matt 13:63-68 Prophet Without Honor**

The word translated carpenter is *tekton* or \"builder\".

 

-   Why did their lack of faith lead to Jesus not performing miracles?

 

-   Do you think we see fewer miracles in communities with less faith
    today?

 

**Summary**

-   How does a deeper understanding of the Kingdom of heaven help you
    face your day-day challenges?
