---
layout: posts
titlex: Matthew-13_25-14_21
pdf: /assets/pdf/Matthew-13_25-14_21.pdf
excerpt_separator: "<!--excerpt-->"
---
**Introduction**

-   How would you summarize what you learned about the kingdom of heaven
    from the parables last week?

 

-   How has autonomy negatively impacted our world?

 <!--excerpt-->

**Matt 13:53-58 Prophet Without Honor**

The word translated carpenter is *tekton* or \"builder\". It\'s
interesting to note that Jesus could have worked in wood, stone (most
buildings were stone), or something else.

 

Notice how Matthew clearly groups the previous 7 parables together (per
our study last week).

 

-   Why did their lack of faith lead to Jesus not performing miracles?

 

-   Do you think we see fewer miracles in communities with less faith
    today?

 

**Matt 14:1-13 John the Baptist**

-   What is something notable that you see about John and his life and
    martyrdom here?

 

-   What do we see in Jesus' reaction to John\'s execution? What do we
    learn about healthy Christian reaction to death?

 

**Matt 14:13-21 Feeding the 5000**

Much has been made of the leftover 12 baskets leaving one for each
disciple. However, the number 12 shows up many times in the scripture.
Including 12 tribes, 12 spies to the promised land, Moses setting up 12
pillars, 12 stones in Elijah\'s altar, and many many more. Of course,
the early Mesopotamians used a sexagesimal number system so it was also
just a common number.

 

-   Each gospel writer records this event. This seems to imply it is
    especially important. What do you take from that?

 

-   What circumstances resulted in the people being without food on this
    occasion?

>  

-   Is the teaching here mostly for the disciples or the crowds of
    people? What is the message to each?

 

**Summary**

-   How does a deeper understanding of the Kingdom of heaven help you
    face your day-day challenges?
