---
layout: posts
author: Joe
titlex: "Matthew 17:14-27"
pdf: /assets/pdf/Matthew-17_14-27.pdf
excerpt_separator: "<!--excerpt-->"
target_date: "May 30"
---
This passages begins with Jesus and the disciples return
from the transfiguration.  We see that a child was brought 
to the other nine for healing/exorcism, but they had been unsuccessful.

In the next passage,  Jesus teaches and demonstrates both his
exemption from the temple tax, and how he and his disciples
should deal with it.

<!--excerpt-->

## Matthew 17:14-21

* What do you think Jesus implied when he said that faith as small as
  a mustard seed would be enough?  What does this say about the faith
  of the 9?  Recall that in chapter 10, Jesus sent the 12 out to do healing, 
  how does this fit with that?

* What is the faith lesson that Jesus was teaching?  How would this 
  be important to the disciples after Jesus' resurrection?

* How should we be applying this teaching in our own lives?

## Matthew 17:22,23

* Here Matthew repeats Jesus' teaching of his coming death and 
  resurrection.  Presumably Matthew repeats this because Jesus
  repeated it to the disciples.  Why did he do so?

## Matthew 17:24-27

The *Bible Knowledge Commentary* notes that every Jew over 19 years
old was required to pay a template tax of 2 drachmas per year to support
the temple.  Presumably neither Peter nor Jesus had paid their tax.

* What do you notice from the timing of the events?

* What do you think of Jesus' explanation that they should not
  "offend" the tax collectors?  What do we learn of how Jesus
  conducted himself on this earth?

* Can you think of ways that we need to avoid being an offense to 
  those around us?
  