
---
layout.posts
titlex: Matthew-12_1-32
pdf: /assets/pdf/Matthew-12_1-32.pdf
excerpt_separator: "<!--excerpt>"
---
This week at church we were challenged to \"Take Another Step\" (Ph
3:7-17).

Note:
<https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/faithnetworkuserfilestore/FAITHNETWORK_USERFILESTORE/FAITHNETWORK_USERFILESTORE/filecabinet/ministries/390f79c7-2313-405e-aac3-dd11f7453c71/Fillable%20Seven%20Choices%20SGSG.pdf>

 

-   What is one of the best adventures you have ever experienced?

>  

-   What is a step, or choice, from your life that made a profound
    difference to you?

 

-   Do you know what next step Jesus is calling you to? How can we pray
    for you?

 

Matthew 12:1-14 \-- Teachings Regarding the Sabbath

 

-   What do we learn about the Sabbath from Exodus 12:9-11? What is its
    purpose?

 

-   What do we learn from Matt 12:2-8 about how Jesus regards the
    Sabbath? How does this answer the Pharisees accusation?

>  

-   Jesus quotes Hosea 6:6. How are we to understand God\'s statement
    \"I desire mercy, and not sacrifice\"?

>  

-   How does Jesus actions in 9-14 help us to understand how the Sabbath
    is to be regarded? How does this influence our understanding of the
    law and the 10 commandments?

 

Matthew 12:15-21 \-- Prophecy concerning Jesus 

-   It is interesting to notice how the trinity is called out in this
    prophecy. What does this passage tell us about the Father, Son, and
    Holy Spirit and their roles?

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   How has Matthew shown us Jesus fulfilling this prophecy?

>  

 

Matthew 12:22-32 \-- Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit

 

-   What is Jesus illustrating when he describes binding a strong man
    before robbing him?

 

-   Why do you think Jesus says that speaking against him will be
    forgiven but speaking against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven?
    What does it mean to blaspheme the Holy Spirit?
