---
layout: posts
titlex: Matthew-14_22-36
pdf: /assets/pdf/Matthew-14_22-36.pdf
excerpt_separator: "<!--excerpt-->"
---
**Regarding surrendering our false view of Jesus**

 

-   Describe a time when you believed something to be true that turned
    out to be false?

 

-   What false views of Jesus do you have to be wary of?

>  
<!--excerpt-->
 

**Matthew 14:22-33 Jesus and Peter walk on water**

> Some details from other gospels that record part of this event:

-   Luke 9:10-11 Suggests the disciples departed from near Bethsaida

-   John 6:19 Says that the disciples had gone 3-3.5 miles from shore.

>  
>
> The total distance, if travelling straight line, from Bethsaida to
> Gennesaret is roughly 5 miles.
>
>  

-   Describe the worst weather you were ever in on a small boat (if none
    describe a time you experienced a scary storm).

 

 

-   Why did Jesus send the disciples away?

 

 

-   Why do you think that the disciples feared a ghost? What is a
    significant fear or concern you have in your life?

 

 

-   Why did Peter want to approach Jesus on the water?

>  
>
>  

-   What new insights about Jesus did Peter and the other disciples have
    from this experience? Why did the say \"surely you are the Son of
    God\"?

 

 

-   What can you do to deal with the fear or concern you shared above?

>  

 

**Matthew 14:34-36 Healing in Gennesaret**

Recall Matthew 9:20 regarding the people wanting to touch Jesus garment.

 

-   What do you think the people understood about Jesus?

 

 

-   Does this passage offer any more insight about Jesus rejection in
    Nazareth?

 
