---
layout: posts
titlex: Matthew-15_10-28
pdf: /assets/pdf/Matthew-15_10-28.pdf
excerpt_separator: "<!--excerpt-->"
---
**Church Acts Guide**

 

-   What are some priorities and plans you have for this season of your
    life? (from Acts 1:6-11 regarding Jesus plan for the church).

 

-   After a couple of weeks perspective, do you have any thoughts on
    traditions or common practices that are common in our lives, our
    church or our society that it would easy for a Christian to adopt?
    Can you think of anything avoided by some Christians that you do not
    feel you need to avoid?

 <!--excerpt-->

 

Matthew 15:10-20 The heart verses the stomach

 

-   Jesus seems to set aside the traditions on cleanliness. Why is that?
    How does this fit with Jesus saying that he came to fulfill the law
    not to set it aside?

>  

-   Jesus teaches defilement comes from within us (our heart) and not
    from outside (what we eat). Do you think this was a surprise to the
    disciples? To our culture?

>  

-   See vs 13,14. Why does Jesus tell the disciples to ignore the
    Pharisees criticisms? Can you think of examples where we should
    apply this teaching?

>  

-   What should we do to guard our hearts so that we are not defiled?

 

 

Matthew 15:21-28 Healing a Canaanite woman\'s daughter

Tyre was 35 miles North of Galilee, Sidon about 60 miles North (a
serious walk!).

 

-   Why did Jesus and the disciples go so far North?

>  

-   Why did Jesus hesitate to heal the woman\'s daughter?

>  

-   Why did Jesus ultimately heal the woman\'s daughter?

 

-   What do we learn about Jesus and how we should approach him?

 

 

 

**From the events we discussed this week, what is one thing that you
will try to put into practice this week?**
